Update v2.2 (#121)
The-Strategy-Unit/nhp_project_information: project_plan_and_summary/model_updates.qmd

order: 5
---

# Update 2024/08/24

## v2.2

### New point of delivery categories for regular attenders

> Regular day/night attenders are patients admitted electively, as part of a planned series of regular admissions for an on-going regime of broadly similar treatment and who is discharged the same day. Intermittent dialysis cases and patients on regular chemotherapy/radiotherapy are examples of regular day admissions.

Reviewer: There's something funny about the grammar here - "patients admitted electively" is plural but then "who is discharged the same day" is singular

> Regular day/night attenders are patients admitted electively, as part of a planned series of regular admissions for an on-going regime of broadly similar treatment and who is discharged the same day. Intermittent dialysis cases and patients on regular chemotherapy/radiotherapy are examples of regular day admissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular day/night attenders are patients admitted electively, as part of a planned series of regular admissions for an on-going regime of broadly similar treatment and who are discharged the same day. Intermittent dialysis cases and patients on regular chemotherapy/radiotherapy are examples of regular day admissions.
```

> In v2.1 we updated our definition for last episode in spell to match guidance from NHS digital. When transitioning to this new logic some regular day/night admissions were not captured. This means for some trusts these admissions were missing from the results, depending on how the trust captured these attendees in the baseline data.

Author: @yiwen-h Would be nice to the announcement when we changed this but I couldn't find it

Author: Oh I've found the description - just not in v2.1 updates

https://connect.strategyunitwm.nhs.uk/nhp/project_information/data_extraction/data_log.html#last-episode-in-spell

I'll link to that description

Reviewer: Here it is: https://connect.strategyunitwm.nhs.uk/nhp/project_information/data_extraction/data_log.html#last-episode-in-spell

To resolve this we have added two new point-of-delivery categories:

- Regular day attender admission

> - Regular nights attender admission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regular night attender admission
```

These will appear alongside the other POD options in the Outputs app.

Trusts who have been significantly impacted by the update have been contacted by their Model Relationship Managers. 

We have also expanded our QA process to include a broader set of test data to run our data comparison checks on.

### Other updates

> We fixed a small bug which gave an incorrect value of beddays in step count for day cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We fixed a small bug which gave an incorrect value of beddays in the step counts/impact of changes for elective activity converted to day case by the [day procedures mitigators](https://connect.strategyunitwm.nhs.uk/nhp/project_information/modelling_methodology/activity_mitigators/inpatient_activity_mitigators.html#day-procedures). 
```

Author: ```suggestion
We fixed a small bug which gave an incorrect value of beddays in the step counts/impact of changes for elective activity converted to day case by the [day procedures mitigators](../modelling_methodology/activity_mitigators/inpatient_activity_mitigators.html#day-procedures). 
```
